# November 9, 2020

I haven't completely decided what I want this "work log" to contain. Part of me wants to keep it really general and be open with all my thoughts and feelings around the project. On the other hand, it may be nice to keep scope limited to productivity, decision making, and project analyis. For now I will keep it limited in scope, but I haven't completely ruled out this becoming more of a personal journal regarding the project and less of an actual work log.

## Format

As far as the work log goes, I think a consistent format should be established. It will take away some of the overthinking that comes with writing a new entry, and makes it easier to run scripted analysis in the future. I want to put 'Action' at the center of these entries. Ideas are too prone to getting off topic or out of scope. Action is more productive to reflect on. Action is more conductive to celebrate and appreciate due to it being more "tangible".

- What I Did
  - What did I do? This would seem to be the best place to start. How can I make this entry distinct from git commit messages? What other value should be recorded?
  - Brutal honesty could be an interesting approach to take here. Be candid with all distractions that come up, be they good or bad. Family interuptions. Twitter distractions. Record the things that pull me away from project productivity. This could potentially highlight themes and common occurences, with which could use to spin up separate projects or inspire new habit building goals.
- What I Didn't Do and Why
  -The logic behind the "What I Did" section inspired me to also reflect on what did **not** get done. I will typically outline goals for each project work day and it would be interesting to see what tasks I punt, ignore, take too long on, etc.
- What I Plan to Do Next
  - Planning ahead and announcing that plan seem like a nice way to both stay organized and have some degree of accountability.

So, without further ado...

## What I Did

Today was primarily an organizational day. I looked over the boiler plate I set up previously and added some extra items to complete later. It would probably be good to setup a script that scrapes my code for '@TODO's and keeps track of a task list in a single document. @TODO: track my 'TODO's. I was also able to spin up a template for swagger documentation, which also doubles as a nice way to spec out the API surface. I also added some notes to the README on project architecture. I will continue to revise the README as the project progresses to be more organized and useful. Finally, I tinkered with Todoist since it is what I'm currently using for project management.

What distracted me?

- Email: I made the mistake of leaving my email client open on my other monitor. I don't even think I read or sent anything, I just kind of clicked around since it was there. I promptly minimized the client once I caught on to myself.
- Random Ideas: My mind is always jumping around everywhere. I am practicing letting myself jot certain things down but not going any deeper than that. Focus is incredibly challenging for me so I'm trying to adopt habits to help with this aspect of that difficulty. I'll refrain from writing about these ideas in these logs for the time being.
- Baby: The kid was a tad fussy when I first started working today. I'm not even a bit upset, the little dude is cute and I relish every moment I get to have with him. Some pacifier and rocking calmed him and he eventually zonked out.

## What I Didn't Do

I didn't set these as hard tasks for today, but was hoping to get to them in a best case scenario.

- Choose a database: I'm pretty sure I made this a TODO. I continued to think on whether to stick with a technology I already know, MySQL, or try something new, e.g. MongoDB. I read around a bit on varying modern DBs and think I will stick with MySQL, but I plan to make a firmer decision next work day.
- Spec the API surface for 'elections': I'm still a little hesitant on my current data model schema. Elections themselves should be pretty straight forward as far as initial rows, but I keep letting myself get distracted with how to store electees and electors. I guess I should have added this to my distractions list above.

## What I Plan To Do Next

The next action items will basically be what I didn't do today: choose a database and spec the CRUD routes for 'elections'.
